(upbeat music)
All right, let's talk about
once you have an element,
what can you go ahead and do with it.
So, let's take this h2 tag here.
We can take that ID off, we don't need that.
Let's go ahead a select that h2,
so const heading is equal to document dot querySelector.
We'll just grab the first h2 that's on the page.
And let's go ahead and also log the heading.
Now, you see that we've got this right here.
It just may seem like it's just an actual element,
but, in reality it's actually an object that has a lot of
properties and methods inside of it.
So if we change this console log to a console dot dir,
what that will do, is it will show us the object properties
instead of the actual element itself.
So you see there, we open it up now.
It's still the same h2 tag that we have.
But, you'll see like whoah!
Look at all this stuff!
There's so much stuff in here.
Almost all of it, you'll never need to use.
It just a lot of legacy stuff.
A lot of edge casey stuff,
but there are a bunch of properties on here that
will be helpful for actually working with the element.
So, look at this.
ParentElement, it tells you what the parent is.
ParentNode.
We'll talk about the difference between element and node
in just a bit.
OuterHTML, outerText.
There's textContent, there's also innerText.
So, scrollHeight, scrollWidth.
You see all kinds of cool stuff is on here.
So these are just properties.
Meaning that we can either use them as getters.
Meaning we just pull the data out of it that we need.
Or as setters.
So lets go ahead and use that textContent.
So console log, heading dot textContent.
That is going to show I am a heading.
Now that is a getter.
But you can also use them as setters.
Setters is when you just update the property.
So if you say heading dot textContent equals
Wes is cool.
Go to save.
Now you see that when we load the page.
We'll see Wes is cool, instead of whatever used to be there.
You can actually console log,
I'm using dir here still.
You can log the textContent before and after.
See, I am heading, is what it was and now it's, Wes is cool.
Because we set the textContent property
on that element.
Now there's all kinds of,
What else do we have?
We also have innerText.
So, if I change that textContent out
or maybe I'll duplicate it.
And then use innerText.
What's the different between textContent and innerText?
It's exactly the same thing.
I honestly didn't know the difference.
I had just been using,
textContent is the newer one out of the two.
But there are always those two.
So I actually went on the MDN docs
and said like, what is the different between the two?
And says textContent gets all of the elements
including script and style elements.
In contrast, innerText only shows human readable elements.
So, if for some reason this is not,
especially in React land,
this can actually happen.
If for some reason you have a style tag in there,
and maybe you say, h2 color red.
If we were to refresh that.
You see it says, I am heading.
Wait, we need to log this before we actually change it.
So we log the textContent and then the innerText.
You'll see that innerText
will give us just the I am heading.
Whereas textContent will give you the contents of, sort of,
I'm using quotes here.
Imagine me putting my fingers in the air.
Hidden ones.
So that's the first big one.
Second one is content returns every element in the node.
In contrast innerText is aware of styling
and won't return text of hidden elements.
That's actually kind of cool.
Because, if you take a look here,
let's get rid of this altogether.
I am heading and then maybe we put a span in here.
I am hidden.
And then maybe make like a style tag down here.
And it'll say, anytime we have a h2
that has a span inside of it,
we'll display none of it.
So let's see, is it there?
We gotta take this thing off.
So I am heading.
Here's the hidden element.
You can't see it.
Now, if we go to our console here,
you see that the textContent gives us the hidden text
as well as white space it looks like.
And innerText will just trim it out
and not show us it.
So innerText is aware of css styling.
That's something I didn't know until like six months ago.
When I was just curious about it and I Googled it.
But, that certainly something that could come and bite ya
if you do have it.
Unlike textContent,
altering innerText in Internet Explorer 11
removes child nodes permanently destroys
all descendant of the nodes, so.
That's not that important.
So good to know.
We also have a set of properties for working with HTML.
So let's actually leave this span inside of here
that says I am hidden.
And if we were to console log the innerHTML.
What do you get?
You get the actual HTML that fills it up.
We also have the outerHTML and that should give us the
including h2 tag as well as the white space
that goes inside of it.
Another thing here is that if you ever want to
tack text onto something.
So let's do a totally separate example here.
Let's go into one of our items here
and say this is how many pizzas I ate.
And then we'll just start with one pizza emoji.
All right, and we're gonna build something that adds
a pizza emoji to the end of it.
So one sort of way that you could do that is you could
first go ahead a select it.
So, const pizzalist is equal to, what did we do?
Let's give it a class of pizza.
Document dot querySelector dot pizza.
And console log
pizzalist dot textContent.
There we go.
Now, if we wanna update that we could
do something like this.
Pizzalist dot textConent is equal to pizzalist
dot textContent plus and we put a pizza on the end.
And I think like ES lingual will turn that into back ticks.
Whoah.
Oh yeah, it turned it into a plus equal.
Nah, that's not what we want.
We want back tick.
So take what was already there
and add another pizza emoji to the end.
Now, when you refresh it there is two.
So that's kinda the way I had some it for a long time.
But that actually was slow in some applications
where I had lots of text and even some HTML
we'll learn about that had it put back in it.
And what that does is it causes the browser to re-render
the entire list.
So what you can do is you can tack text onto the end
with another method called insert adjacent element
or insert adjacent text.
And what that will do will give us the ability to add stuff
onto the front or onto the back of it.
So let's change that.
And we'll just say, pizzalist dot insertAdjacent,
and see there's three of 'em.
Element, HTML and text.
And we can go to MDN and take a quick look.
And you see that this is not a property,
but it is a method.
Meaning that it's a function that we run against
the element much like query selector and query selector all.
It takes two arguments.
First the position:
beforebegin, afterbegin, beforeend, and afterend.
And then you also want to give it
the text that you want to pass it.
It says element here.
But it just means raw text.
This is not adding HTML.
So we could do that.
We want to say,
beforeend.
And we want to add a pizza emoji.
And then we got, it gives us the same thing.
But you should know that that's the best way
to attach text to the end of something.
And we can also like swap it out.
We can say, beforebegin.
What will that do?
You see what that does actually is
it puts the pizza emoji before the paragraph entirely.
Just out on it's own.
So it's not inside of an element any where.
Well it's part of the article, but it's before it.
So we would actually want afterbegin
if we want to put the pizza inside.
So now that should give us, there we go.
Woohoo.
That puts the pizza in front of it.
You see actually, the browser knows that you added that
after the fact because it's split up the text
into what we used to have and what we have added.
That's actually the different between elements and nodes.
So nodes can be anything.
This is also a node, this is a node, this is a node.
But an actual element is
actually just something that is wrapped in a tag.
So that's an element, that's an element, that's an element.
This is just, these are just nodes.
It's a little bit confusing because everything is a node.
And then it only upgrades itself to an element if you
have wrapped it in a tag and in this case
these are just nodes.
I don't know, let's run it again.
Afterbegin.
And beforeend.
Beforeend.
There we go.
So, that's our afterbegin and beforeend.
The best way to tack text onto it.
If you are wondering what all the possible ones are,
I'm not going to sit here and show you absolutely
every single one.
We're just gonna sort of stumble upon these
different properties and methods as we need them.
As we start to build a lot of our exercises.
You can go to the MDN docs and this is
I think super helpful to be able to actually understand
what the possible things are available to us.
So you go to element, which is
an element is just like a tag on the page.
Here's a little example.
Remember I said everything is a node?
This is an element.
And then it tells us what all the properties are
inside of that element.
All kinds of stuff.
The ones with exclamation marks beside them are things
you kinda want to stay away from.
And then you can, where did textContent go?
Let's look for it.
Oh you see, textContent is not here.
And that's because some of the properties
don't just exist on element,
but they also exist on node.
So you can click through to node and look for textContent.
There we go.
And it tells us, returns or sets the textual content of an
element and all of it's descendants.
So we'll go back here.
If wanna know, those are the properties.
And then there's also a huge list of the different methods
and you'll see that there's probably,
here we go, insertAdjacentText.
That's the one we just had.
But, there's also querySelector.
We learned about those methods.
There's matches,
which I'm sure we'll use that in this course at some point.
All kind of different methods in here.
The ones with the little beakers beside it,
are ones that are sort of still in development.
Hopefully, all of these are super handy.
And I bet in the next little while,
you might even be watching this
six months after I release this and these will be
un-beakered because they are super handy and
you'll be able to use 'em.
So that is elements.
That is being able to both get properties from the element,
set properties from the element,
and then also use a little bit more powerful methods
on each of our elements,
or on each of our nodes like insertAdjacentText.
That's the high level.
We're gonna be using that a whole bunch
in our exercises.
For now, let's swoop into working with classes and
other attributes on the element.